Project Summary ---

Phase-1

It was more of a data collection phase where I have visited various websites frpom govt of India to collect the crimes data as per area, population, their literacy rates. 

In this phase I have created the data frames of the data in jupyter notebook and stored in the github repository which shows all the required data. 

Phase-2

It was about the State/UT wise analysis of various aspects of the crimes in India. Here we have done the analysis of the crime rates with literacy rate, types of crime vs each state, crime rate vs each year, crime rate vs overall area and population vs overall crimes occuring in India from 2001 - 2012. 

I have done the analysis using the Jupyter notebook and data frames where I have to merge the various datasets according to the analysis performed. I have to perform various formulas to evaluate the %ages of the crime rates with different features like population, area, literacy etc. 

I have performed this and also plotted the graphs show casing the various analysis for these comparisons. 


Phase -3

It was all about the SQL operations and pulling the required data from the tables. Here in this phase, I have to import the data sets into the SQL tables to perform the analysis using SQL queries. 

I have inserted the records from vaious datasets into tables to complete the analysis of various crimes data. 

For example, I have written the SQL query to find the highest number of rapes & Kidnappings that happened in which state, District, and year, to find All the lowest number of rapes & Kidnappings that happened in which state, District, and year, to find the highest number of dacoity/robbery in which district, to find in which districts(All) the lowest number of murders happened, to find the number of murders in ascending order in district and yearwise, to find which District in each state/ut has the highest number of murders yearwise. Your output should show STATE/UT, YEAR, DISTRICT, and MURDERS. 

Also, plotted a graph to showcase the data. 

Phase -4

In this phase, we have created the clusters of the sensitive areas, Moderate area and peaceful areas by performing the various methods for the data cleaning voa checking the nulls, data distributions using the distplots, boxplots for outliers detections, IQR methods have been performed to check the outliers, treated outliers and created the data frames for each cluster to write the overvations as well as plotted the graphs. 




